---
layout: post
title: Making a Mern stack todo list
---

I learned a lot about the MERN stack throughout this project.

### MongoDB

I used MongoDB atlas for hosting the actual database because it was free and easy.

The actual database was painless and simple to start.

I made a cluster and made a new collection. I whitelisted 0.0.0.0 so the database can be talked to from anywhere. I got the URL for connecting to the database and stored it in a .env file.

&nbsp;

I wanted to use SQL when I was planning out the project but due to how simple the project is I just went with MongoDB. I am currently planning another project and maybe use SQL in that project just so I have some experience with SQL.

### Express & Node

Setting up an Express server in node is simple once you did it a few times. I simply looked at my old node projects and used what worked.

I know I am not using Express to its full potential but then again the project is simple enough that app.get and app.post can cover what I need.

&nbsp;

I serve the build folder generated by React for app.get("/") and have /api/todo as the place to get and post requests from the frontend.

I used an api (if you even call it an api) as the way a frontend can talk to the backend (and to the database). The backend is more like a relay point that connects the database to the frontend.

&nbsp;

I bet I could have made the backend into a cloud function or AWS lambda but I was too lazy if node Express covered my needs.

### React

React is very nice to use. I encountered nothing that wasn't one google search away.

&nbsp;

Using Axios and async gave me a bit of trouble but after some googling and learning async-await promise I managed to correct my mistake.

The actual design of the website was extremely minimum, after all its just a todo list.

### google cloud platform

This is the thing that "just worked". I typed gcloud app deploy and it just worked. I am happy that I live in the cloud world where deploying an application is relatively simple.

### some thoughts

When I was starting the project I had little idea how hard it was going to be. It turned out that most of what I considered difficult challenges were already done and uploaded to npm.

&nbsp;

I used Axios and JSON for getting and sending data. The availability of npm libraries means I am building with lego instead of raw plastic.

&nbsp;

Overall, this is a fun project. I gained a deeper understanding of all the technologies involved.

